we're gonna jump straight into a bangin
new video from American senator Ted Cruz
Ted Cruz is a terrible reputation within
the Republican Party and with the
Democrat Party but that's been changing
just lately a lot of Americans have
concerns that big tech media companies
and Google Google in particular are
engaged in political censorship and bias
as you know Google enjoys a special
immunity from liability under Section
230 of the Communications Decency Act
the predicate for that immunity was that
Google and other big tech media
companies would be neutral public fora
are you familiar with a report that was
released yesterday from Veritas there's
a video from a woman Gen John I it's a
secret video that was recorded Gen John
I as understand it is the head of quote
responsible innovation for Google as I
understand it she is shown in the video
saying and this is a quote Elizabeth
Warren is saying that we should break up
Google and like I love her but she's
very misguided like that will not make
it better it will make it worse
because all these smaller companies who
don't have the same resources that we do
will be charged with preventing the next
Trump situation it's like a small
company cannot do that do you think it's
Google's job to quote prevent the next
Trump situation so a different
individual a whistleblower identified
simply as an insider at Google with
knowledge of the algorithm as quoted on
the same report as saying Google quote
is bent on never letting somebody like
Donald Trump come to power again you
think it's Google's job to make sure
quote somebody like Donald Trump never
comes to power again no sir I don't
think that is Google's job and we build
for everyone including every single
religious belief every single
demographic every single region and
certainly every political affiliation
well I have to say that that certainly
does not appear to be the case of the
senior executives at Google do you know
of a single one who voted for Donald
Trump the public records show that in
Google employees gave to the Hillary
Clinton campaign 1.3 1 5 million dollars
that's a lot of money care to venture
how much they gave to the Trump campaign
I would have no idea sir well the nice
thing is it's a round number $0.00 not a
penny
according to the public reports let's
talk about one of the powerpoints that
was leaked the Veritas report has Google
internally saying I propose we make
machine learning intentionally
human-centered and intervene for
fairness google according to this
whistleblower deliberately makes
recommendations if someone is searching
for conservative commentators
deliberately shifts the recommendation
so instead of recommending other
conservative commentators it recommends
organizations like CNN or MSNBC or
left-leaning political outlets is that
occurring thank you sir I can't comment
on search algorithms or recommendations
given my purview one of these documents
that was leaked explains what Google is
doing and it has a series of steps
training data are collected and
classified algorithms or program media
are filtered ranked aggregated and
guaranteed and that ends to with people
parentheses like us are programmed
does Google view its job as programming
people with search results me this is
partly personal partly professional
partly political in a highly emotive
issue just a few days ago I made a video
on this channel announcing my conclusion
after years of being a YouTube content
creator that what most people perceive
as the automated result of an algorithm
is in my educated opinion in fact the
work of human hands intentional
decisions made by human beings even
though those decisions may well be
enabled by software in the same way that
when you're writing an essay you're
enabled by a word processor a better
comparison perhaps people who work on
the stock market buying and trading
shares their work is enabled by computer
technology but the decisions are still
being made by human beings and one
skeptical response I received was that
you can't possibly imagine human beings
are micromanaging the videos that are
being promoted and the videos that are
being suppressed on YouTube to this
extent that they're micromanaging these
kinds of fine points of political
distinction and I say to that if you
visit any house that's for sale you
might say it's impossible it's
impossible that a real estate agent is
micromanaging the furniture in this
house but guess what it's completely
standard in the real estate agency to be
staging houses for the real estate agent
to pay attention to the tables and
chairs in the room and minor details now
that appears and why because that is the
core of their business what we're
talking about here with Google is right
at the center of what they do it's the
value added it's the value that presents
the world their whole competitive
struggle has everything to do with
selecting what they consider quality
content and making sure that's pushed to
the floor and suppressing content the
type of content that used to be infamous
for like a video of two kids in the
schoolyard having a fistfight just 10
years ago when you said YouTube that was
what people thought about YouTube has
fought very very hard for the veneer of
respectability they now have and it's a
real tech credit it's a real credit to
Ted Cruz that he's now standing up and
he is tearing that illusion down guys
one of the most underrated principles in
the American Constitution is the
principle of equal protection under the
law and I like to expand that by saying
equal protection under the law and equal
that
fit under the wall one of the reasons
why that's not quoted and discussed as
often that it's a later amendment to the
Constitution it's not part of the
original debates of the founding fathers
in American jurisprudence it's also even
embarrassingly quite a bit later than
the u.s. Civil War home it sort of comes
into American history later than it
should but it's really the most
fundamental principle fairness is too
vague what you need are standards that
can apply to everyone equally so said
this before about censorship I'm
completely comfortable with censorship
as long as the standards are transparent
simple and forcible and apply to
everyone equally so if YouTube decides
that there's absolutely no nudity on
YouTube and they define nudity so nobody
can show their nipples fine then that's
the rule there are no nipples on YouTube
in the past that actually wasn't their
rule if you've been around YouTube for a
few years they used to allow nudity
under you on YouTube under certain
conditions and they change their mind on
that one um the problem is that YouTube
has been enforcing impossibly biased and
one-sided standards I was talking in a
forum literally lately where everyone
was more left-wing than me everyone in
this room was here on the internet was
voice chat and I pointed out to them
what YouTube is doing right now is
enforcing a standard against the
right-wing that they have not and would
never enforce against the left-wing well
what do you mean well it seems to me
that right now anyone who makes excuses
for or voices their opinion in support
of right-wing violence or who states
shall we say revisionist history lies
about last 200 years of history in favor
of a right-wing position those voices
are suppressed and banned outright often
vary dramatically banned outright
lifetime bans for the user shutting down
channels not just the monetization and
of course we have a somewhat ridiculous
example that's caught the public
imagination so I'm talking here up to
this point of doing movie
extreme politics political extremism on
the right wing but what the public is
currently focused on is a comedian
steven crowder who made disparaging
comments about homosexuals and although
those are despair
although they are offensive if you
consider it within the context of what a
stand-up comedian like Chris Rock says
how offensive are they what is the
standard that's supposed to be applied
to stand-up comedy on YouTube is it the
case that what Chris Rock says on HBO
what Chris Rock says on broadcast
television is not permissible on YouTube
and if so why and if so if if there's
one standard that standard has to be
applied to right-wing people left-wing
people it has to be applied the same to
Japanese people and people in India
people in Japan tell lies about World
War two also right if this is you know
this is getting into a really difficult
to enforce area that's not as simple as
the binary question between nudity and
no nudity nipples and no nipples so
steven crowder gets demonetized for
making offensive jokes but being
offensive is integral to stand-up comedy
case in point Chris Rock case point
innumerable stand-up comedians many of
whom are intentionally offensive that's
an aspect in comedy you could have a
rule if you want to you could have a
rule for all of YouTube no stand-up
comedy the stand-up comedy is banned and
then some other website could compete
with YouTube by saying hey there the
website that has videos where comedy is
allowed to encouraged even if it's
offensive and if YouTube wants to they
can have very strict standards of
censorship and they can be open about it
if they apply it fairly and consistently
equal protection under the law and equal
benefit right but that is not what's
going on now and it never has been and
never will be I have raised this again
and again when I talk to left wingers if
you believe that a voice like a valiant
extreme right winger especially when she
started extreme extreme right winner if
you think that a valiant should be shut
down for lying about history what do you
think about Richard Wolfe Richard wolf
just as a brand-new series of videos
lying about the history of the Soviet
Union lying about the history of
communism every stage his newest video
is 1917 to 1975 why is it that the left
wing can lie about the massacres of
millions of people in some cases tens of
million
people why is it they get to lie about
history with impunity why isn't the
left-wing makes calls for violence
actively advocating and making excuses
for radical left-wing violence I made a
video calling out maxy maxy is a
communist extreme left-wing youtuber and
a whole bunch of my supporters on
patreon like denounced me some of them
quit and stuff because I would point the
finger to so you know this is over the
line this is not acceptable she was she
was a perfect of a YouTube channel
left-wing extremist communist YouTube
Jim were they literally we're showing
film in support of this with men in
masks holding assault rifles and and
these men they weren't just posing for
the camera some of them like the
Naxalites in India they're going out and
murdering people they're going on
murdering police officers and factory
owners that's a form of communism with
an ongoing body count
anyone actually was talking about this
in a room with a bunch of left-wing
people they'll reply to me was this
shows how brainwash people on the Left
are especially people here on YouTube
there were plenty was will you know the
difference is that the right wing is
attached to real-world violence whereas
in the left wing to talk about the
revolution violence is only hypothetical
that shows just what a dangerous
delusion is currently ruling over people
left-of-center and these people have
never even heard of the Naxalites
they've never even heard someone like me
criticized the extreme violence of
communism yes historically learning lots
of history and yes present and ongoing
in our history okay communism is
dangerous left-wing violence is just as
extreme and shocking and terrible as
right-wing violence and YouTube has a
really tough decision to make here
either they can go back to the way
things were like seven years ago when
the right wing the left wing and the
people in the middle are all free to
criticize each other where the truth
gets to emerge amidst a cacophony of
contrasting voices or or or YouTube is
gonna try to become the next CNN YouTube
is gonna try to become the next MSNBC
it's gonna try to come the next BBC it's
gonna become the next tightly-controlled
on message propaganda mainstream news
and opinion platform we all know where
the money is we all know which way this
is going terms of government regulation
YouTube needs to be split up into at
least three different companies one of
them should be super censored only
presenting children's entertainment one
of them should be way less censored and
have comedy edgy comedy offensive humor
or swearing one of them should maybe
have standards more like HBO HBO is it
mainstream to be and allow nudity and
some degree of sexy drama I mean on HBO
there's so much less censorship than
you're on YouTube and sure let's have
one two three four let's have many
YouTube's competing in the political
arena and let's have
all of them at least some of them
allowing that cacophony of contrasting
opinions
[Music]